The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, Ember Saturday of Lent, Good Fruits.
the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Ghost I'm in.
The ember days are again four times a year.
They commemorate the seasons originally in the agrarian society.
If you didn't have a good crop, you didn't eat.
Every season was going to be lent, unless you had a good one.
And so this is even something that was, I won't say adapted, but understood by the church, the pagans were already doing this, holding little festivals to the gods or the change of the seasons.
So the church is like, okay, we need to, they have the right idea, thanking the gods for harvest, but it's really, it's one God, right?
That's what we need to thank.
So they got a good idea, let's do it the right way, hence the ember days.
As society became more industrialized, less agrarian, and it just as the church progressed, they began to do ordinations on ember days, ordaining priests especially.
The idea of course is now it's not a harvest of crop, it's a harvest of souls.
And the souls, the sons and daughters that the parents give to the church,
That's a harvest.
That's a tithing of the harvest.
And then those very sons and daughters who are themselves a-harvest, they become harvesters and harvest even more souls, right?
The fields are white with a harvest.
So that's the imagery and the idea kind of behind the ember days.
And in between the readings, like those five readings, they would do ordinations.
So like the first, second reading, you ordain the porters, the lectors, a few more readings, the exorcist's acolyte, a few more readings and so on.
Lesson from Deuteronomy 26.
In those days Moses spoke to the people saying, When thou hast made an end of tithing all thy fruits, Thou shalt speak thus in the sight of the Lord thy God.
I have taken that which was sanctified out of my house.
I have given to Levite, and to the stranger, and to the fatherless, and to the widow, as thou has commanded me."
Boom.
Okay.
Food, crops, grain, corn, oil, grapes, wonderful.
Sons and daughters.
That's the harder thing to give.
That which was sanctified out of my house, my good house, the good environment.
I brought up my children well.
I taught them the ways of the Lord.
They are sanctified.
They are holy.
And I'm giving up my best.
And it's going to be hardest to give up your favorite child, not your bratty demon child, the near-duel.
I mean, there are stories of miraculous conversions.
But God is going to ask from you your best.
He's going to want the child that you love, the dear to your heart.
It's not a small sacrifice of parents to give up sons and daughters to the religious life.
But what a testament.
I would say, we talked about predestination.
God does not condemn souls to hell, right?
He knows they're going to go there.
And God knows he's going to go to heaven.
And the signs of predestination, praying the rosary from Louis de Montfort, devotion to Mary, but also religious vocations from a family, right?
Mothers, fathers who have sacrificed their sons and daughters, I would say it's a sign of predestination.
Right?
You don't gather figs from thistles.
And then the lesson goes on with all the good things that we are to do or that people have done.
I have done all the things that was commanded.
I've obeyed the voice of the Lord, my God, et cetera.
And the Lord has chosen the, and this is mostly speaking to people.
The Lord has chosen thee this day to be His peculiar people as He has spoken to thee and to keep all those commandments.
This is, the Lord has chosen to be a special people out of all the nations on the earth.
God has chosen one tribe, the tribe of Israel, to be a special people.
Out of all the people on earth, baptism makes you the new tribe, the new Israel.
We could say God has chosen us.
That's why we're called a priestly people, a holy people.
Even as God calls some children out of a family to have a religious vocation, God, we could say, chooses
Some people out of the human race to be a special people and that that is baptism of course He calls everybody But many are called if you were chosen because few want to be chosen few listen to the call, but all of us have that religious vocation Okay, Deuteronomy second lesson Deuteronomy 11 oh And this is the blessings right of those who follow the will of the Lord Moses said to the children of Israel if you keep the commandments I give to you if if you keep them and
and love the Lord your God and walk in all his ways.
The Lord will destroy all these nations before your face and you shall possess them, which are greater and stronger than you.
Every place your foot shall tread upon shall be yours."
Right?
We have nothing to fear.
When we are doing the will of God, when the church is doing the will of God, there's no enemy so great that cannot be overcome.
God is with us.
You know, that's like the Saint Bernadette, right?
When she said, when the depressions were coming into France, and the after she was afraid and she said, no, I did not fear them.
They said, well, what do you fear?
I only fear bad Catholics because they have the grace of God and they squander it.
So just, you know, we're going to wander in the desert for 40 years.
If we go up to the Promised Land and we're like, and then we're cold, okay, now it's time to take it, go into there and possess it.
Oh, no, no, they're giants.
We can't do it.
Timidity, that's going to make us wander for 40 years.
I mean, I don't think the time is yet, but the time has come and close.
When the traditional Mass is going to be making a comeback, when it's not so much the Mass, it's the culture.
It's the understanding of all this stuff that I talk about.
This is the traditional church.
This is the real church.
And it's still there.
And that's what people find when they find the traditional Mass.
It's this.
It's this truth.
It's this continuity.
So that's coming back.
I don't know when our time is going to be to make the storm, make the assault, but it is coming.
The world has never even heard about the Catholic Church.
Whether the Catholic Church that the world sees, that's a caricature.
It's just another Protestant church.
So the modern world for 40, 50, 60, 70 years has never seen the Catholic Church.
When that breaks upon the world, we're going to see convergence like never before.
In those days the priests made prayer while the sacrifice was consuming and Jonathan beginning and the rest answering and
O Lord, deliver Israel from all who dist deliver Israel from all evil, who chose the fathers and did sanctify them.
Receive the sacrifice for all the people Israel and preserve thy own portion and sanctify it."
This is just amplifying that idea of taking sons and daughters, men and women, giving them to God.
Receive this sacrifice on behalf of the people and preserve thy own portion.
What's thy portion?
The religious, right?
Thou art my portion of my cup.
Levites didn't get any
land is that the Lord said, I am your land.
I am your portion and your inheritance.
Here's a good prayer, the gradual.
Of thy clemency, O Lord, we beseech thee harken to the prayers of thy people, that we who are justly afflicted for our sins may be mercilessly delivered for the glory of thy name.
It's important that we pray to be delivered from the consequences of our own actions because that makes us realize there are consequences to my actions.
Actions have consequences, and God will not spare us from them.
And it doesn't matter that we don't know that what I'm suffering is because of my own actions.
I'm still going to suffer them.
I say that all the time.
God punishes sin, ignorance punishes itself.
And people wonder all the time, oh, why is my life so hard?
Why is my family situation so difficult?
Why is my...
It's because of you.
You're the problem.
You're causing.
The way you treat other people is the reason they treat you the way they do.
Because even...
We have control over our own actions, right?
And people can only act on the information we give them.
And so often, we don't even know that we're sending signals, right?
I mean, people who like the cholera temperament, they have this trouble with their tone of voice.
It's harsh.
They don't realize that.
Like, why is everybody acting like I'm angry all the time?
Because you sound angry, right?
You have to learn, but I'm not angry, but you sound angry, right?
You have to work on that.
I don't expect people to just give you the benefit of the doubt.
Oh, gosh, that was super harsh.
Oh, but they don't really mean it.
Don't expect that, right?
If you have a problem, change it.
Same thing with people on the other side of the spectrum.
They're so timid, and they're like, oh, I always get overlooked.
I always get taken advantage of.
It's because that's what you project.
So this is the justly afflicted for our sins.
Actions have consequences.
Our temperament, our demeanor, our speech, our posture, our behavior, all that has an effect on our life and the people around us.
That's why nobility is so important.
Striving for character.
Striving to, if you know you have a flaw, remedy it.
Please ask us 36.
What's my lesson here?
Oh, this is awesome.
This is an epistle to the United Nations.
This is what the UN should be.
This is the attitude.
Listen to this.
Have mercy on God and behold us and show us the light of thy mercies.
Send thy fear upon the nations that have not sought after thee.
That they may know that there is no God besides thee.
Ooh, that's great.
Other nations, you should fear God.
Oh, but God is merciful.
God is kind.
Fear is the beginning of wisdom.
If you want to be wise, you have to fear God.
And he's not a servile fear at cowering, trembling because he's going to abuse us because of his absolute power and majesty.
The angels tremble in awe that they may know there is no God besides the and that they may show forth thy wonders.
Because once these nations are converted, who knows what they're going to be able to do?
Who knows what they're going to be capable of?
That would be awesome.
All those people, all those minds, all those intellects, all those unique persons God has created, when they turn to God and they realize the truth, oh, that's when world peace is going to happen.
Lift up the hand over the strange nations that they may see thy power.
For as thou has been sanctified in us in their sight, so thou shall be magnified among them in our sight.
It's like we want these other nations to be our friends.
We want them to be magnified in our sight.
We want them to grow.
We want them to prosper.
How about that for a message to humanity?
The only way you're going to prosper is if you obey God, because He made humanity.
He knows what's going to make us happy, what's not, what's going to be prosperous, what's not, what's going to destroy society and humanity.
God knows.
Except that, you can prosper.
That they may know thee, as we also have known thee, that there is no God besides thee, O Lord, renew thy signs, work new miracles, glorify thy hand, and thy right arm raise up
This is interesting.
Raise up indignation and pour out thy wrath.
Wait a minute.
What happened to all the brotherhood?
What happened to all the love?
What happened to all the kindness?
Mankind must be disciplined, just like a child.
They may love the parents.
The parents may love them.
If the child's evil inclinations and proclivities are never disciplined, the child will be ruined.
And this is what it's talking about.
Raise up the indignation, pour out thy wrath, take away the adversary and crush the enemy.
Well, who's the enemy?
It's not the foreign nations, because we just prayed that they would be magnified.
We want them to be raised up and powerful.
We want them to see your mercy.
We want them to see your glory and justice.
Who's the enemy?
It's Satan.
It's the evil demons.
And it's us.
When we sin, when we do evil, that's the enemy.
That's the adversary.
The adversary to the obstacle to world peace is infidelity, is lack of belief in God.
It is not abiding by the principles of the Catholic Church.
But then among the Catholics, it's pride.
It's arrogance.
It's selfishness.
Those are always going to be the obstacles.
That's what we're asking for God to crush and to defeat.
Haste in the time, remember the end that they may declare the wonderful works, O Lord our God.
The next lesson is a canticle from Daniel chapter three.
And this is always the final lesson in all the Ember Saturdays.
All the Ember Saturdays and all the year, they always end with the same lesson.
And it is the three youths
in the fiery furnace whom God said an angel and made the midst of the furnace like the wind bringing dew.
And they sang praises to God.
And so there'll be another time we can go over that.
But the idea is in the midst of the burning furnace of adversity, God can bring peace.
God can bring refreshment.
And the youths, they don't blame God.
They praise him.
Bless the God.
They recognize his majesty.
And we bless God in all seasons.
Fire and heat, snow and ice and so on.
So that's the final Ember Day lesson and then the actual epistle for tomorrow, Saturday.
This is amplifying the idea that our enemy is ourself, our enemy is sin and iniquity.
Brethren, we beseech you, rebuke the unquiet, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient towards all men, even if that man is you.
See that none render evil for evil, but ever follow that which is good towards each other and toward all men.
Always rejoice, pray without seizing, and all things give thanks.
Despise not prophecies, but prove all things.
That means don't disbelieve them, but prove it.
OK, yeah, this may be the prophecy where I'm not going to say, oh, that's impossible.
God can't do it, but don't be gullible.
Hold fast that which is good from all appearance of evil, refrain yourselves.
May the God of peace sanctify you in all things that your whole spirit, soul, body may be preserved blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Like we were talking about etiquette, manners, speech, comportment, behavior, and so on.
Fix all of that.
So in those last two readings we had there about the conversion of the nations and this rebuke all men, be at peace with all men, be patient with all men, it all relates to the idea of harvest.
of the harvest of souls sending laborers into the vineyard converting all nations, bringing them all into the fold of Christ.
It is possible.
I do not believe that the world has to be divided.
I don't believe that Islam and Judaism and Protestantism has to continue forever.
Those can end just as Christendom once was united and all of Christendom was Catholic.
Generally, yeah, I mean, it was a mess, but it was a Catholic mess, right?
And there was what Sigrid Unsett, the author of
the famous book, Christian Lovrensdottter, she did a lot of research.
She converted, researching the Middle Ages, and she said, if you want to know what the Middle Ages was like, take a look around you at modern society and take away everything you don't like.
That was the Middle Ages.
Absolute beauty, harmony.
Yes, I mean, you hear certain things, but just the stability.
You look at the world today, it's a cesspool.
It's because it's not Catholic.
I'm not going to mention actually, so the Gospel.
I'm not going to mention the Gospel because
It's just of the following Sunday.
It's a transfiguration, and it's just...
I guess the idea is that people are transfigured by grace.
We can transfigure the world, but that will be something I'll address at another time.
So I think, you know, we can unite the world under Catholicism.
How is it going to happen?
I have no idea.
But we all can do our part.
Praying, fasting, right?
Doing those little things every day, you don't think matters.
We are spectators to angels and men.
So just keep that in mind.
Who knows what God can accomplish?
Believe the incredible.
We can do the impossible.
And I firmly believe in the incredible.
So who knows what kind of impossible things God will accomplish with us?
Keep up your Lenten penances.
Pray and always believe.
God bless.
Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost, amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Ember Saturday of Lent.
good fruits.
Our next sermon is entitled, Ember Saturday of Lent, Transfiguration.
In the name of the Father and of the Son, the Holy Ghost, Amen.
These readings for today's Mass on the Saturday of Ember Week should remind us of the historical value
of these readings.
Even back then, there used to be even more readings on this day.
And in preservation of these readings, we ought to meditate these Old Testament readings as well as the epistle to remind us of the great value of the priesthood.
We see that in the various Old Testament readings that we have read today,
ought to apply also for our sanctification.
And that is why during these times of the Ember days, bishops would be ordaining ministers towards the holy sacred priesthood.
And therefore that is why also, if you see in certain older hand missiles, you would see then a little common saying,
after such and such a reading would be the ordination, for example, of porter, ordination of letter, ordination of exorcist, subdeacon, acolyte, deacon, and priesthood at the various points in today's liturgy.
So normally, after each reading, starting with the Kyrie, the tonsure would be conferred.
then Mass would progress with the collect and the ordination, the other ordinations of the minor orders would be conferred to the candidates, to the seminarians.
And finally, right before the gospel would be the ordination of priests.
We probably experienced such great sacraments in the church of having assisted
in the ordination of sacred ministers for holy orders.
And what grace it is for the laity, what grace it is for those who attend for the first time, and those who assist, inquire, to see such the power of the church in just one concentrated place.
We recall, for example, last year in St. Louis, of the the ordinations of four priests to the sacred priesthood last summer,
and we see also the benefits and the fruits of that priesthood by the prayers of the faithful.
Also, we see sometimes the priest would come and visit their home parishes and even the other various postulates that the religious order would run and would then receive the grace and also the indulgences attached to such first masses.
And therefore, this ought to be also renewal for each one of us.
That on this Saturday, we are reminded to never become discouraged, to never tire, to never forsake.
For the kingdom of God, we ought to continue to strive for excellence, as what Pope Benedict XVI had said.
that we are made for greatness, that we are made for heaven.
And that is why in today's Gospel that we see today, that we have read, that Christ appeared in His most glorious luminous form here on earth, a transfiguration that became white as snow, dazzling and brilliant.
This ought to
exciting us and encourage us to continue further because this is how we can become.
And this he showed to only a few of his apostles.
He had left the other apostles down the hill.
And if we were to visit this Mount Tabor, it is not a rim mountain.
It is even much higher and steeper.
And it would take several hours to even climb up
that high place.
And we know our Lord uses these places for teaching, just like Jerusalem is set on a very high gradual hill just to mark that it is such a great place of importance, such as Mount Carmel, which is in the north, in north of Israel, and Mount Tabor, which is close by, closer to Jerusalem.
So these high places we ought to find in our soul.
Whether these high places be in the convenience of our home, whether it be in the silence of church, whether it be in a monastery that we like to frequently go, whether it be in a quiet place in nature.
Let us find our high places in order to retreat a little bit from the hustle and bustle of this world in order to refocus on
the finality of this Lenten season to really try to unite ourselves with that of the passion of our Lord and his suffering because it is through the cross that we will be victorious and our Lord wants us to always be encouraged and that's why he showed his apostles only a few of them of his transfigured glory just like he reveals to us in scripture
of how great He is, especially when we receive Him in the most blessed sacrament.
And therefore, let us continually remind ourselves that this journey is quite hard, it's quite difficult, but we must unite ourselves with our Lord and His grace in order to make this worthwhile.
Let us continue to carry that cross
that God has customized for each and every soul that let us carry it with happiness.
Let us carry it with dignity.
Let us carry it with great reverence and veneration.
Let us remind ourselves again of St. Paul and his exhortation that we ought to be patient towards all men.
See that no one renders evil for evil to any man.
But always strive after good towards one another and towards all men.
Rejoice always.
Pray without seizing.
In all things, give thanks.
For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus regarding all of you.
Let us remember and keep these words
as we continue to meditate during this holy Mass that we may offer this Lent for the glory and in God's holy name, Amen.
In the name of the Father and of the Son, the Holy Ghost, Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Ember Saturday of Lent, Transfiguration.
Our next sermon is entitled,
If you are silent, be silent out of love.
And if you speak, speak out of love.
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Communication has never been so easy today.
We are, in fact, the communication generation.
texts, emails, tweets, comments, selfies, snapshots, FaceTime, WhatsApp, Skype, and I know you know certainly the litany better than I do.
One click and I'm in direct communication with the other side of the planet.
What a progress.
And yet communication has never been so effective to attract, attack, to detract, to call me
or to belittle.
We are constantly immersed in this endless noise, never ending disturbance.
And we are the first beneficiary of such a progress and certainly also the first victims.
Our language itself has been affected by this mentality because of a form of communication way too virtual, too often lacking of a true
reasonable and realistic foundation.
And yet we have been asked to walk for 40 days along with our Lord in the silence of the desert.
Silence can and must become a virtuous behavior.
Silence can even become a meritorious action, a meritorious habit.
Fasting with our tongue, as St. Francis the South explained,
is a means of sanctification, because it involves much self-denial and restraint.
Take the gospel of the day.
After His transfiguration, Christ imposes silence upon the disciples present, and Jesus cautioned them, saying, tell the vision to no one.
In not speaking idle words, and those which savor
of the world or the things of the world," says the great doctor of the love of God.
Interior fasting accompanies exterior fasting, keeping better silence, or at least keeping it more punctually than is usual, mortifying the tongue so that you will no longer speak of anything vain.
Saint Ambrose gives us a good advice.
He says, is someone abusing
or insulting you, best to keep silent.
You will keep yourself from sin and people will think better of you.
Exterior and interior silence.
I said, I will guard my ways that I may not sin with my tongue.
I have set a guard to my mouth.
I was mute and was humbled and kept silence even from good things.
says Psalm 38.
We often complain about not being able to focus during our prayers, too often distracted.
But do we try to have the proper dispositions before praying?
What is my remote and near preparation?
Do not expect to be able to pray and listen to our Lord talking to your soul if, for instance, you come to mass while listening to the radio.
If right before praying the rosary or doing your meditation, you're watching the TV, checking your emails, spending time on social media, silence the exterior, but also the interior, your imagination, your memory, what we call internal senses.
This constant noise is a terrible obstacle to interior silence.
Take a few minutes of recollection, of calm, of silence,
before trying to do any spiritual exercise.
And this will certainly not be wasted time.
And in that recollected attitude, we will be able to hear the voice of the Lord.
However, to keep silence can also become, on the contrary, vicious or sinful.
Yes, indeed the silence of the soul that refuses to acknowledge her sins.
that refuses to confess properly and with a contrite heart her faults because of human respect or simply because of negligence.
Deus non iridetul.
Make no mistake about it.
You cannot cheat God.
In your relation to others, do not keep silence after having offended someone, your spouse or child, your friend,
Of course, wait first for the storm to go away.
But once you have recovered your peace of mind and soul, go and say a few kind words.
Apologize and do not think that by keeping silence you have resolved the problem.
Know most of the time you simply avoid what would be the solution to the problem.
If you are silent, be silent out of love.
And if you speak, speak out of love.
It is necessary while talking about silence to talk about the necessity to listen.
The more we keep all these external and internal noises quiet, silent, the easier it will be to listen to the innumerable inspirations of the Holy Spirit.
If you're trying to discern a vocation, trying to take a grave decision for your family,
trying to make a decisive choice for your career, trying to find the answers to your trials, keep silence, be collected in your prayer, and listen.
Be patient and repeat with St. Peter today, Lord, it is good for us to be here, to be here with you.
We are certainly in the era of the dictatorship of noise, but God only speaks in the silence of the soul,
I have to say it, it is sad to see so few young people, especially, coming to adoration or visiting the church, obviously outside of mass time.
What better moment of silence is offered to us during the week?
Probably none.
God's first language is silence, says Saint John of the Cross.
Our generation is literally afraid
scared of silence, because afraid of God, because afraid of what God will tell them through their conscience, because enabled to listen to this conversation of love, he wants to establish between him and every single soul.
So let us not be afraid and let us go joyfully in the desert to encounter Christ, to listen to him and to establish with him this divine intimate dialogue.
If you are silent, be silent out of love, and if you speak, speak out of love.
Amen.
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, If you are silent, be silent out of love, and if you speak, speak out of love.
Our next sermon is entitled, Rejoice, Pray, Give Thanks.
God's Will Revealed.
One of the things that we hear rather frequently and with much frustration in people is if they only knew what God's will was.
It would be so much easier, wouldn't it?
If the Lord just made clear to us what it is that He wanted, how He wants us to do something, whatever it is, peace of cake, we'll do it.
Right.
God appeared to us in a cloud like he did on the mountain and said, this is my beloved son, listen to him.
We would listen, right?
Yeah, right.
But what if the Holy Spirit made it absolutely clear to you what God's will for you is?
Well, he did.
He was right in the second reading today.
St. Paul said, Rejoice always.
Pray without ceasing.
And in all things, give thanks.
This is God's will for you in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Couldn't be too much clearer, could it?
If we only knew what God wanted, we would do it.
Yeah.
Do you rejoice always?
hear a lot of whining and complaining, I don't hear a whole lot of rejoicing.
Do we give thanks for everything?
Generally not.
Once again, a lot of negativity.
Why would I be grateful for this?
Look how bad it is.
Do we pray always without ceasing?
Even when we try, that's really hard.
It's one thing, for instance, if you had a relatively mindless sort of job, yeah, then you can just pray while you're doing whatever, and it's no problem.
If you've got a job where you have to be using your brain, it's kind of hard to be thinking about one thing and doing another, and so it's not as easy as it sounds.
So we need to work on that prayer part.
He told him many times, you know, St. Benedict told the monks, you pray before you start a task, you pray while you're doing it, and you pray at the end of it.
Ask for help, work with God through it, give thanks.
But in the midst of that, let's look at those other two.
To rejoice always.
Joy was one of the hallmarks of the early Christians.
And I know we can look at it and say, yeah, but they didn't have to deal with what we have to.
That's right, their life was in danger every day.
Yeah, they didn't have to deal with things like my internet went down.
I mean, really important things like that.
They might die.
We whine and complain over the most stupid things.
They were rejoicing
And their life was in danger.
They were persecuted.
They were hungry.
They were thirsty.
They were persecuted.
And they rejoiced.
We get a hangnail.
And my goodness, you would think the end of the world was coming.
So we need to be able to look at our disposition and ask ourselves, when I know that this is God's will,
Shouldn't I be rejoicing?
And I know in our pessimistic way, what do I have to rejoice in?
How about in Jesus?
How about the fact that he's making you a saint?
Do we really believe that St. Paul, what St. Paul told us, that all things work together for good for those who believe?
Not most things or some things, all things work together for good, for those who believe.
On the surface, that makes no sense.
You look at these poor kids who are being violated.
You say, how can that work for good?
There is nothing good in it.
And yet that's part of how God is making those kids into saints.
By working through these absolutely horrific things and being faithful and praying and trying their best to work through these things, they are going to become saints.
And in fact, they are going to become amazing saints.
Now most of us wouldn't ever recognize them as being saints.
We tend to look at the ones that are out there doing extraordinary things.
God knows what's in their heart.
He sees the effort.
He sees what they're trying to do.
And He's the one blessing them for it.
It may well be that when the end comes, we're all going to need binoculars or telescopes to see where they are compared to where we are.
Because of the struggle and the difficulty that they had trying to move forward in spiritual life, and they persevered in it.
And they became great saints.
And maybe for some of us, for whom it's a whole lot easier and we're tiptoeing through the tulips and thinking everything is just grand.
Yeah, maybe we're going to eke our way in.
Those people are going to be way up there.
We don't know.
But it's a matter, though, that God brings good out of everything.
And He does.
And we all know that.
We've seen it enough times in our lives.
Initially you can't see anything good, and in the thing itself maybe there's not anything good.
But the lessons that we learn and the way God purifies us and what he teaches us, the good that he brings out of us that we recognize this could not have happened unless these horrible things had happened to me.
I wouldn't wish those horrible things on anybody and yet I wouldn't trade them in because look at the good that God has brought from it.
Well, if we've seen that pattern enough times in our lives, then when this utterly horrible thing happens to me today, then I can actually be grateful.
And I can rejoice because I know that God's going to bring some great good out of it.
I don't know what good He's going to bring from it.
But I know that He is.
If I will trust Him, if I will continue to have faith, if I'll even do exactly
What St. Paul tells us is God's will for us in Christ Jesus.
If I will rejoice and give thanks and pray.
That doesn't sound too terribly difficult.
And we all know just how about impossible it is for us.
So if we really knew God's will, we would do it.
How about at least at this point if we really know God's will, we will try.
We will make an effort.
We will try to do that.
Have we even done that?
That's a great challenge for all of us to look at.
Have I even really made that effort to rejoice always and to be grateful for everything?
These are very, very difficult things.
And yet we don't know
the good that God can bring from it.
We're listening to a talk that a woman had given a lady who does all the pro-life billboards.
I don't know what her name is right now.
Anyway, she had given a talk at a local high school and some kids that were thinking she was nuts and kids know everything, they decided to go out and break the windshield on her car because they didn't agree with her pro-life position.
And she had decided not too long before that she was going to do exactly what St. Paul told us to do.
No matter what happened, she was going to rejoice.
She said, so I get done with this talk and it was kind of a hostile environment and a public high school.
So I got out to my car and I saw the window broken.
She said, the first thing I thought of is my husband is not going to be happy about this.
And then I got to deal with the insurance company.
I'm going to have to get all these things.
She said, no, I decided I'm going to be rejoicing.
So she said she stood out there in the parking lot and she started praising God that somebody had done this.
Eventually got in her car and drove home.
She said it wasn't right away.
It was a year or two later.
She got a letter.
And it was from a young woman who, back on that day in high school, was pregnant.
And she was going to have an abortion.
And her friends decided, because they were all pro-abortion and this woman was nuts, Marianne Kohersky is her name, that they would break her window.
And then they decided
Since she was up there talking about Jesus and about pro-life, they were going to hide themselves behind another parked car, and they were going to watch because this would be so funny to see her reaction.
And then she rejoiced.
And this girl watched as Mary Ann Koharski stood out in the parking lot and rejoiced and praised God that her window was broken.
And she said, I now have this whatever two year old daughter.
Because when I saw what you did, I canceled my abortion.
She rejoiced in the Lord that these kids had broken her window.
And that saved a baby's life.
We don't know what kind of example we give.
We don't know whose heart we might touch.
She had no idea.
She didn't know these kids were watching.
She had no idea there was a young girl who was with child.
She wasn't doing this to try and save the baby's life.
She had simply decided she was going to praise God for whatever happened.
And the result of that was something she didn't even know for a couple of years later.
So we don't know.
And we're not doing it to try and impress anybody else.
But it's simply to say, look what happens when we praise God for everything, when we can thank God for everything.
It makes a huge difference in our lives, but obviously it can make a huge difference in the lives of others as well.
And even if we're not looking to make a difference, it's God's will for us.
We know that.
And if we know God's will, we're going to do it, right?
So let's get at it.
Rejoice always.
Pray without ceasing.
Give thanks in all things.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Rejoice, Pray, Give Thanks.
God's Will Revealed.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, Ember Saturday in Our Daily Prayer Life.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
In one of the collects for the Mass for Embers Saturday in Lent, we hear, direct our actions, we beseech thee, O Lord, by the inspiration, and further them with thy continual help, that every prayer and work of ours may begin always from thee, and through thee likewise be ended.
For all those taking part in the retreat, especially today, this is a prayer for you to take to heart and is a prayer for your preacher to take to heart as well.
Indeed, for many ages, it has been the will of Holy Mother Church that all Christians should make this prayer a part of their prayer life on a regular basis.
For this collect from the Embers Saturday has come down into the liturgy and even into private devotions
as the prayer aksionis nostras, which are the first two words with which it begins.
It has, for countless agents, been a prayer that Christians have used and have employed before they begin any task, before they begin work, before they begin study, any task at all.
They begin with this prayer asking for the good Lord to direct our actions and further them with His continual help.
imploring his grace before, during, and after any task that we perform.
Right now, though, I would like to speak a little bit about the original place of this prayer in the mass which we are celebrating today.
Everyone is always struck by Ember Saturdays.
We remember at least vaguely of a year of what the Ember days are about, but it is Ember Saturday above all which truly strikes us, where it is so much longer than other masses
throughout the year.
The reason for this is that on Ember Saturdays, especially the Sacrament of Holy Orders was conferred.
That is why we note, and you may note in your missile, that the station for today's Mass is St. Peter's Basilica in Rome.
This was the church chosen where the Pope would ordain today on minor orders all the way up
to the priesthood.
We know that St. Francis to Sales was ordained in three embers Saturdays in a row, and one year alone he was ordained to subdeacon, deacon, and then priest.
And that is very much what is in mind with the prayers that we hear at this mass.
We find that after each of these prayers and each of these lessons, another order is conferred.
And then
We arrive at the prayer which I just recited for you at the beginning, Axionis nostros, direct our actions.
After that, we have the ordinations to the major orders.
All those to be ordained, subdeacon, deacon and priest, these three different types of men, they would all lie prostrate on the church floor as the litany of the saints was sung.
Then they would rise
and the orders would begin to be conferred.
The ordination of subdeacons then occurs right after the final lesson, which ends with the hymn, which we find in Daniel, of the three men in the fiery furnace.
For these three types of men are ordained, we have this hymn, and then follows another prayer which will come down to us
as part of the daily prayer life of the Church.
Indeed, it is often paired with the one I recited for you earlier about the prayer to direct our actions throughout the day.
Both of them are part of the Thanksgiving after Mass, which you find in the Roman Missal.
This prayer, which they would hear right before the ordinations begin to subdeacon, deacon and priest, is as follows.
O God, who did subdue the flames of fire for the three young men,
Mercifully grant that we thy servants may not be consumed by the flames of vice This is a theme we will hear again at the end of Len and another day which was also reserved for the conferral of holy orders that is the Easter vigil It is the 12th prophecy when we hear once again the three men in the fiery furnace singing It can certainly be understood at that time of these three men these three types of men those who are about to receive major orders and
But it is also understood at that time, as I've mentioned to you in the past, of all those who are being baptized.
Those who are being baptized were entering the fiery furnace, as it were.
And they should rejoice as did the three men, for although they would suffer terrible persecution in this life, their joy would never be taken from them, for they belong entirely to Christ.
In all these things, both with the Embers Saturday and with the Easter vigil, we see that we are very much in the age of martyrs when these liturgies
came to be.
What follows then immediately after these prayers, in the beginning of these ordinations, the first order is conferred that is subdeacon.
After that, one of the newly ordained subdeacons would chant the epistle, which we hear is very much an admonition to those who were received in sacred orders.
It is from St. Paul to the Thessalonians,
speaking about the manner in which they should guide and correct the faithful, and that they should be thankful and always rejoicing.
Then would follow the ordination of the deacons.
And then the final tract of the Mass, the final chant, which is a praise to Almighty God for His boundless mercy, would be broken in two.
The first verse would be sung, praise the Lord all ye nations, and extol Him all ye peoples,
And then the ordination of priests would occur.
Then that chant would be concluded, for his mercy is confirmed upon us, and the truth of the Lord remaineth forever.
And then would come finally the last recurrence of this theme of three men, for we would have the gospel of today, which is the gospel of the transfiguration.
The church wishing to dwell on this theme will continue the theme tomorrow, for we will have the same gospel tomorrow.
in what was formed in former times was known as Transfiguration Sunday, that is the second Sunday of Lent.
Once again, then we have this theme of the three men.
As did sub-deacons, deacons and priests have been ordained.
Now these three men are taken apart by our Lord up to a high mountain and he is transfigured before them.
I look forward to speaking with greater length about this theme of the Transfiguration tomorrow.
For now, suffice it to say that this brings to completion
The theme of the three men that these men who have been chosen by God for the special grace of holy orders will now be given that special grace of seeing our Lord in His glory.
St. John says, Beholding the glory as of the only begotten from the Father full of grace and truth.
This is to fortify them as it has for countless centuries in this mass fortified those who had just been ordained to major orders for the terrible trials that await them so that if
They go with our Lord to Mount Taborb and see him in his splendor and glory.
It is so that they may be fortified to be able to be with him in the Garden of Olives in his agony and be united to him on his cross.
If this is true of those who are to shepherd the Church of God, it is so that these graces may flow down to all of the Christian faithful so that they may make their own the prayers of today's Mass, especially that prayer
with which we began the sermon, and which I invite very much for you to make a part of your normal prayer life.
Direct our actions, we beseech thee, O Lord, by the inspiration and further them with thy continual help, that every prayer and work of ours may begin always from thee, and through thee likewise be ended.
Through Christ our Lord.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed our final sermon for today entitled, Ember Saturday in Our Daily Prayer Life.
Thank you for listening to the Station of the Cross presents, Sermons for Everyday Living.
May these sermons help you grow in your faith journey.
Please say three Hail Marys for the priests who preached today's sermons.
We hope you will join us again next time for, Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.